# Data-Wrangling-and-Visualization-of-FordeGobike-dataset
This project is focus on carying out exploratory Data Analysis on FordGobike data to understand customer needs to better serve them. The original dataset has 174952 fordgobike rides with 16 columns of diffrent atributes. The original dataset has been modified nonetheless and now has 174952 forgobike rides with 22 columns with different attributes which includes; 'bike_id', 'user_type', 'member_birth_year', 'member_gender', 'member_age', 'start_station_id', 'start_time','start_date', 'start_hour_of_day','start_day_of_week', 'start_month', 'start_station_name', 'start_station_latitude', 'start_station_longitude', 'end_time', 'duration_sec', 'duration_in_minute', 'end_station_id', 'end_station_name', 'end_station_latitude', 'end_station_longitude', 'bike_share_for_all_trip'. Some wrangling steps executed on the dataset includes; removing null values, changing datatype of start_time from object to datetime  as well as tidying up the dataset by generating new columns which are helpful in generating better insights from the data.  
Univariate, Bivariate and multivariate analysis was conducted and from the analysis, one can say the were more trips on weekdays (Monday through fridays) than at the weekend (saturday and sunday) and the peak times of rides were between 8am and 5pm. It was also realised that the most users were subscribers and very few persons were not subcribers and Male riders outnumbered female riders. Majority of the users were young person between the gae 25-40 and very few riders whose ages were above 40. majority of the rides last about 5-10 mins with very few lasting up to an hour. i did perform some data transforming on the data to achieve this visualizations by creating new columns with start time as demonstrated at the begining of the analysis (see part_1 notebook.ipynb).
The was an unusaul distribution in the members age as there were members with weird ages like 140. this age isnt realistic as a 140 year old can't possible ride a bike, therefore there was a need to adjust the column to limit the age to 70 that look more realistic.
From the bivariate analysis, most of the biplots were done on the usertype against other parameters. from the visualizations, its clear There is significantly more subsribed users compared to users who are customers. Subscribers and customers have distinct behavioral patterns when it comes to riding. Most trips taken by subscribers are on weekdays during peak hours for commuting, while customers tend to ride for leisure on weekends in the afternoon or early evenings. Subscribers are slightly older and tend to take longer rides on average compared to non-subscribers. It's worth noting that subscribers who were illustrated to be slightly older on average , take shorter and faster rides compared to customers. There is a significant difference in the length of trips taken by customers and subscribers. with customer trips considerably shorter that subscribed users.
The multivariate exploration allows for the simultaneous examination of multiple variables and provides additional information, which improves the identification of patterns previously observed in bivariate and univariate studies. Male users tend to use the service more often than female users, and subscribers tend to use the service more on weekdays, possibly for work commutes. On the other hand, non-subscribing customers exhibit a more relaxed pattern of usage, using the bike-sharing system mostly on weekends and in the afternoons for leisure purposes.
Conclusively, the dataset proveded had litle modification to be done to it in terms of cleaning. Nonetheless, the dataset was tidyup by adding some new columns which were helpful to generate better insights from the data. From the visualizations made from the dataset, there is little difference in usage habits between male and female riders. However, it would be intriguing to examine any potential differences if there were more data available for female riders. The study only analyzed data from February, and it would be enlightening to see if there are any seasonal patterns in usage by looking at data from other months, specifically, whether usage increases during the summer or winter months.
